We had another young man in his band named Boyd
Rabin. And actually, the dance was over. One of the
other band members, his girlfriend was going
riding around. And Rabin went along, and I went
along. He said he had David with the band.
What was he like? Describe him. He was a young man,
probably early 30s. He had a good band, but you
didn't hear much of it. He hadn't gotten up to the
top yet. Did Glenn Miller come here during your
time? I believe he was here one time. But we had very
good bands coming here. But not often, because
mainly the people who wanted to get What
were the biggest dances on the campus that
y'all did? Did
y'all do the cotton ball?
what about ring dances or boot
the
during
during this time who was the president
gilchrist yet or was he dean bolton the president
Bear
tracks both of them? I didn't know that. He had big
feet.
Did you all see the president much? No. I don't
think he attended.
When you and your buddies wanted to have a good
time, where did you go and what did you all do? We
went out to Edmond. Thank you. Describe his place.
Well, there was a frame building. But the main
attraction was the bar. You'd get off campus in
order to drink beer. You didn't have much money to
drink beer, but we'd go out there and have it
fraternized. It's the guy that we had to walk from
the campus down the edge, and it was right away.
What was the favorite brand of beer that you all
drank? Grand Prize, Southern Select? Grand
Prize, and what was that other one? Southern
Select? Yeah, that was one of them. I had forgotten
that name, but it was Budweiser. Oh, sure. Yeah,
but some of the beers were cheaper than others,
were they not? You probably drank the cheap beers.
I don't recall ever getting bruised off out there.
They just went out there just for the company, you
know. And most people walked. Right. Did you and
your buddies ever go out to the clay pits swimming?
I didn't go out there, but I know there's a lot of
guys that did go out there to the clay pits. Was
there a bootlegger anywhere around that anybody
knew about? I don't remember one. Did any of the
guys in the project house ever have beer or whiskey
in their room? No. No, there was a clean place. We
didn't bring anything in there. Was it okay to
smoke in the room? It seemed like I don't ever
remember having to go outside to smoke. I don't
know. I know there was maybe one or two guys in my
room that smoked. Where did y'all go for a movie?
Oh, at the campus. DeGuyen Hall? DeGuyen Hall? No,
not very often. I don't recall that they had
movies.
Oh, I'm sorry. You mean the campus theater? Yeah.
Yes, yes. Yeah.
They're not doing movies. They're doing country
music. That's a big thing nowadays. That's where
we used to go to see a movie. Do you remember where
you were on December 7, 1941? Yes. Please describe
that. That was Sunday. And we didn't go to church
that day. We were just lounging around in the rooms
and everything. Some guys had this radio on and
there was great excitement about the bombing of
Pearl Harbor.
I was listening to that thing and I went down the
hall and I said, well, we're into it now. And I knew
then that we were involved in a big war. And I'm sure
we all were pretty silent and listening to the news
and being really scared, I guess you might say.
Although it wasn't frightening per se, but it was
solemn, one of the solemn things. We are now
involved in it. And then I said to these guys, Well,
we're into it now. Because, you know, there's been
a lot of, not a lot, but reluctance for the United
States to get into this business. But we didn't
have any choice after that happened. And so, I
guess that kind
of determined my future, you know, more or less.
People thought I was reneging on military things
because here I am, 30 years old, and wearing
civilian clothes. And that was one of the
influences in putting me into service in 1942.
Now, did you volunteer? Yes. I volunteered, but I
wanted to join the Navy. I don't know why. I just
thought it was romantic, and I had some friends who
were in the Navy. But they weren't taking any
volunteers. So I really did the best thing not
going into the Navy when I volunteered with the Air
Force. And they had no trouble taking me there.
Now, when did you sign up? Do you remember? October
1942. October 1942. So you had finished two full
years. Did you go here in the summer of 1942? Yes, I
did. And I had signed up. to go to the fall. Things
were in a turmoil. Nothing was the same as it was
before. I mean, I didn't know whether the band
would continue or not. And people were, men were
leaving by the door being either drafted or going
for some reason other than maybe because of the
military. That's the kind of turmoil. And you get
involved in that kind of thing. And you wonder why,
well, what am I going to do about this thing? And I'd
say, well, how do you stand out of the service?
Well, that was one of the reasons why I
volunteered. Another reason was I just got picked
up in it. And I told my mother that I was
volunteering. She said, you were too old to go to
the military. I said, well.
And where did you go to enlist? I went to Waco.
I can't pull up these boards.
I went up there and volunteered. And they sent me up
to Dallas.
They involved you. They signed you up. And you were
sent back.
I was sent back to Waco. I worked in a state in
Dallas. Not too many days. I know there's a bunch of
us here in Oregon.
And I ended up at Mineral Wells, one of the places
out there. And then they sent me back to Waco. And I
stayed in Waco, this was October when I went in, and
I stayed in Waco until February. And then I was
enrolled in an Air Corps maintenance thing. And
they sent me to Nebraska, to the Nebraska Air Base
up there for training as a mechanic. And thence,
from there I was shipped to California and
assigned to a group in the 363rd Fighter Group.
From there I ended up in Europe.
These years are most impressive to me because I was
involved in the thing.
involved in maintenance to a fighter. What kind of
fighters were in your squad? B-51. B-51? And that
was the big. Mustangs. Yeah, that was the big
fighter thing in the big area. They had the 47s and
they had the 51s, and they both were fighter
things. But if anything, the 51 was probably a
superior product because it had the speed of 750
miles an hour. When the war started, you said
things changed around here. Describe how it
changed. How did attitudes change among the
students? Everybody was excited. You know, and it
felt like everything you did, you had to do in a
hurry. And you go here, and I had already signed up
for classes. And I'd gone to some classes, but I had
to go to the... When
the war started, who did you and your friends think
was going to win the war? Do
you remember anybody arguing against? No. It
seemed like You know, everybody was into the
thing, and they went into it voluntarily, so to
speak. Well, everybody was really . You know, the
Japanese were doing something like that. And so we
. Everybody,
I don't remember anybody ever objecting to it.
Now, during that second, your sophomore year
here, though, when the war started, the Aggieland
Orchestra is still going strong. Did some of the
members of the orchestra leave early? I think some
of them did, but I think I was the first one that they
called. But I'm sure that some of the other two were
in the military out at A&M. They probably called
up. Did you all change your repertoire when the war
started? Did you all play some different songs?
Well, some of them we did. Some
of those English
songs. White Cliffs of Dover. That's the one I was
trying to think of. And the one about the
Mockingbird Sands. On Blueberry Hill. No, but
that was another one. Blueberry Hill. The
Mockingbird Sands. On some street. And there was
about four or five of those songs that were being
popularized. I'll be seeing you.
We lost contact with one strong in the United
States.
During that second year here, did any of the
faculty leave, faculty and staff? I don't
remember whether it was or not. Of course, you
know, you didn't know very many of the staff I was
working with. And I think I was probably one of the
first ones to pay off, so I don't know who left that
job. They had that movie made here, you know, that
stuff. Was that while you were here? No, it was
after I left. Oh, boy. Oh, I was hoping that you
would have recalled that. I said it. We've never
been whipped, I think. Never been licked. Never
been licked. They said that really changed the
campus. Cables running here and there and all that
stuff. Now, you came back here then after the war.
Yes. When did you get back? I got out of service
September of 1945. And I didn't realize it, but I
could come
back to A&M. I thought,
well, I've got
time on my hands. I could count the year that, you
know, the student year that I started. So before I
decided to leave the military, I was at home. I told
my mother, she was going to be 30 or something like
that. I thought I was going to stay in the military,
stay in the Air Force. She said, well, I hope you do.
college education. And so I
didn't know really what I wanted to do, but I went
back and I said I couldn't get into school now, but I
got out of the military just in time to get enrolled
in the fall semester.
And
how... How had your attitude
about college,
how has it changed by the years? Well, I guess not
many of them. The military gave you
$69. But were you more determined? Well, I was more
into it.
Oh
yeah, I made better grades. I was older. What was
your major? What were you dreaming of doing with
that degree? Thank
you. ... ... ...
... ... ...
Thank
you. And
where did you live? Did you play in the orchestra
again? Well,
it's pretty much the same as something he made.
Before, the management of the Arc Park Center
didn't have a steering director. But they got a man
named Bill Stringer. I don't know if he's on that
page on the campus. He was either head or director
of Agri. And they didn't have a director. Mr.
Turner, was he a faculty member? I think that he
was. San
Luis, Texas, and San Marcos? No, no, it's the one up
at East Texas. East Texas? Yeah. Yeah. When was
that? After you left? Yeah. Mr.
Turner here, did
he conduct the Aggieland Orchestra? Did
the instrumentation change after the war?
The big band there was dying. And the big band, you
couldn't afford them. And they just didn't get out
and threw around like they used to do. We didn't get
to bring any of them down here. Did you all get paid
when you, were you still getting paid cash when you
did play? Yes, I was. Do you remember what the pay
was after the war? No, I sure don't. I didn't depend
on that as much because I had the GI Bill. But that
didn't cut it either anymore because of the higher
costs and everything. Now, back before the war,
did someone conduct the orchestra or did you all
just play together? We just played together. and
uh... after the war or most of the concerts uh...
most y'all played mostly on-campus didn't travel
marley or really how did you travel thing but
there's more more read well the same as it was
before things under different hospices her still
an employee of the university
You
said that you didn't read music much. Do
you remember any tune that was very difficult for
you to... to learn and one that was very easy. What
was the easiest
or the hardest? Well, the hardest one was . Those
were easy?
Yeah. . I
think most of them are students who had not gotten
involved. Were they newcomers? Some of them were.
Yes, they were. I'd say that maybe 50% were new. Who
was your closest Aggieland Orchestra friend?
Well, I guess Murray Evans. Murray Evans? Yeah,
the guitar. He was the man that got me down here. Of
course, he was graduated, I think, well before I
did. And there was several of those guys. Where was
he from? He was from McKinney. Okay. We were both
from McKinney. And then after the war, you were the
oldest man in the group? I'm sure. Did they look to
you for advice? No. They're pretty independent
people. All right. After the war, how different
was the behavior pattern of the students? They
did. They did? Because, you know, the enlisted man
was not allowed to drink in the service. You did not
get any quota, you know, like the, where the
aviators or other people with rank, you know, they
were issued overseas, they were issued drinks.
And some of them, sometimes they would give their
drinks, you know, some of them didn't drink,
they'd give it to their people who were under them.
So some drinking in the service. Of course, if you
got off to London, or Paris or someplace, you know.
Then you let your hair down, you know. But back on
the campus, there was no control, and you could buy
all the whiskey you wanted, you could do anything.
Well, we didn't drink a lot. I didn't drink a lot,
but I drank. You may not want to put this on, but
there was a group of people in Bryan who were
civilians
They'd bring drinks out there, and we'd all go out
and sit under a tree and shoot the bull, you know,
and have a few. All right, now, was this beer or
whiskey? Mostly beer. Beer. Now, was Whiskey
Bridge yet operating? Drove out towards Snook
just beyond the... Yeah. Yeah, that's where the
whiskey was bought. You know, this was a dry
county. Right. We used to go out on Friday, drive
out and get a pint or a quart or something, you know,
and we'd... Now, so Uncle Ed's was there before the
war, but there also after the war. I don't remember
ever going to Uncle Ed's after the war. I remember,
let me think about this. Well, I believe it was
still there because I was involved with a young
lady from out of Waco. And one time her parents
brought her down for a dance or something. And we
would probably have another band in at the end, you
know. But anyway, I can remember she and I
hitchhiked down to the edge one day. So I'm sure he
was still out there by that time.
On the south edge of the campus, the project houses
were filled with veterans. And were there lots of
trailers there also? I don't remember the
trailers. But, you know, they converted it, you
know, to quarters for married students, you know.
So they lived in the project houses.
What did the married students' wives, what did
they do? Did they work around? I think some of them
did, but I don't recall anything in particular. Of
course, they kind of had their own cliques, you
know, the married students did. And we didn't
fraternize, you know, with them very much, or know
them, for that matter. What did you and your
buddies think about the Aggie band? Oh, we loved
it. Of course, we had, nobody didn't have to, but,
you know, we got a lot of members of the bands in the
orchestra. I see. Several of the trumpet band, and
I know that maybe it might have been, say, 60% of the
Aggieland Orchestra were band members. Of
course, they had the advantage of being good
musicians, you know, and they were, they were
chosen. from out of the band to play in the
orchestra. And let's see, every instrument y'all
had except the piano, the band... I don't think the
band furnished them. No, no, I mean, but those
instruments, the people could play those
instruments in the marching band. Oh, yes. Yeah,
they got those guys from over there who probably
maybe had had orchestra experience somewhere in
their civilian life. When you came back from the
war, describe going to an Aggie football game. How
did things change
before the war and after the war? I'm sorry to say,
but I was not much of a football man. So I don't know
whether it would be any difference or not. Of
course, you know, the Corps has always supported
athletic things, pretty much. I was not in the
Corps either time, so I guess I didn't get that, you
know, I don't know what you call it. As far as you
were aware, what student officials corps
commander, band commander, whatever. What
student leaders had the highest prestige? Well,
of course, the military was pretty... Now, at one
time, after I was graduated, I went to work in the
military department over there keeping records.
Oh, really? Yeah. But they didn't pay. Meantime, I
had gotten married. And I couldn't feed a wife
on... the records keeper's salary, so that's when
I left A&M. All right. When did you start going
steady with this future wife? Was it while you were
a student? Yes. How did you meet? Oh, let's see. We
were downtown. No, I guess the first time I met her,
I was going to Caldwell on the bus, and she was going
to Giddings on the bus, and that's when I met her.
And then I found out that she worked at the fiscal
department. At that time, she'd been working over
there for a couple of years. And I used to meet her at
lunch, you know, at the cafe. She'd come over to
cafes on the north side for lunch. What cafe? Where
would you all meet? I don't remember the names of
them, but they were right along in that. right
across from the post office there. They changed
the names, you know, and it'd be one name this time,
the next time you went, somebody else owned it. But
we used to go over there, and I'd beat her over
there, and we'd have lunch together. When you went
out on date, where did you go? To the Boogamies.
There wasn't very much to do, you know, around
here. Campus or downtown? Downtown. She lived
with her sister and brother-in-law down on East
29th Street. Which was the best movie downtown?
The Palace. And then, of course, they had the
Queen. And another, I don't remember what that
other name was, but they were all owned by the same
people. The Shieldmans, I think. Yes. Yeah, Bill
Shieldman. Did you have a car by that time? No, I
didn't. I didn't get a car until after I went into
the insurance business. Well, how did you all get
around when you were seeing her? Well, we had a bus.
Okay. We had a bus to get into town. Okay. She'd
either come out here and we'd louse around on the
campus or else we'd, you know, various places, yak
and, you know. Did y'all go to dances? Yes, uh-huh.
Occasionally, when sometime a big band had come
into town. Having been in the orchestra,
sometimes I didn't have to pay. Uh-huh. Let's see.
One of the questions I should have asked earlier,
when you were a student, did you attend any
religious services here? We used to go to church
over at First Baptist Church in College State.